All right here's another kind of just simple example here says How long does it take so how long would
it take for an electron to drift from your car battery to the starter motor.
That distance is approximately 1 meter.
And the drift speed similar to what we calculated 3.7 times tend of the negative 5.
So this one's pretty straightforward right.
We have an electron electron wants to travel a certain distance from the battery all the way to the
starter motor.
Let's say that distance is approximately 1 meter.
Let's call that Delta X. We know that the speed here.
This is the drift velocity v and all we want to do now is find the time.
So VD would be a displacement divided by Delta T.
How long it takes.
So you rearrange this equation delta t simply delta x divided by this drift velocity.
So you simply have one meter and divide that through by 3.7 times ten to the five meters per second.
At the end of the day put that in a calculator we get 2.7 multiplied times ten to the four seconds.
That doesn't tell me a lot.
Other than it's a really big number right.
27000 seconds.
Let's convert that maybe see how many hours that is.
So we have 2.7 times ten of the four seconds.
We start with seconds at the end I want to get rid of seconds.
And I want to get ours in one hour.
I know there is 60 Minutes and in each minute there's 60 seconds so you get something like this.
That gives me approximately seven point five hours to do that on the calculator.
So that's pretty remarkable right for an electron to go from the motor to your battery.
It takes seven and a half hours.
So the drift velocity is very very slow.
It's just what the take home message is with this example the individual velocity of an electron in
a conductor or just due to thermal motion is very high.
However the drif philosophy is very low.